8 Unusual sports in India that will blow your mind										-- Advertisement --										By										adwaita										7 min.										Updated: November 26	2021									Share										Read Content										|Source - Mha Ro Rajasthan)|Source Flickr||||||										- Advertisement -										Table of Contents										Complete List of Unusual sports in India										Inbuan										Mallakhamb										Kalarippayattu										Yubee Lakpee										Dhopkhel										Asol Aap and Asol-Tale Aap										Kambala Buffalo Race										Elephant polo										-- Advertisement --										There are many unusual sports in India that many of you aren’t aware off. Be it Dhopkhel or Mallakhamb youngsters don’t no India’s great sporting history.										Did you know about Rural Olympics? While we are preoccupied with mainstream sports	 the Kila Raipur Sports Festival	 popularly known as the Rural Olympics	 takes place annually near Ludhiana in Punjab.							-- Advertisement --										It is a fest of some unusual sports of India that have been enjoyed by many generations of that area.										But Punjab isn’t the only state with such indigenous games and competitions. Let’s have a look at some unusual sports of India.										Complete List of Unusual sports in India										S.N Name of Sport Type Popular In										1 Inbuan Wrestling Mizoram										2 Mallakhamb Gymnastics Maharashtra										3 Kalarippayattu Martial art Kerala										4 Yubee Lakpee Rugby Manipur										5 Dhopkhel Unique game Assam										6 Asol Aap and Asol-Tale Aap Racing canoes Andaman & Nicobar Islands										7 Kambala Buffalo Race Buffalo race Karnataka										8 Elephant polo Polo Rajasthan										Unusual sports in India: Inbuan										-- Advertisement --										Inbuan is a variation of wrestling which is famous in Mizoram since the early 1750s. It is held in a circle 15–16 feet in diameter on carpet or grass. The game has three rounds about 30 to 60 seconds each. The objective is to lift one’s opponent off his feet while strictly adhering to the rules. Stepping outside the ring and bending of knees is not permitted. The belt or catch-hold rope	 around the waist	 has to remain tight all through the game.								Unusual sports in India: Mallakhamb										‘Malla‘ means gymnast	 and ‘khamb’ means pole. Mallakhamb is an ancient Indian sport that dates back to the 12th century. The sport was forgotten for a long time until Balambhatta Dada Deodhar	 the sports and fitness instructor to Peshwa Bajirao II	 revived it in the 19th century. He thought it was an excellent sport for increasing the strength and flexibility of the soldiers. It is still a very prevalent activity in the state of Maharashtra	 and children are trained for it from a very tender age. It involves an immense amount of control and focus on one’s movements.  The sport has gained some international popularity too. Truly	 the unusual sports in India going global.					Unusual sports in India: Kalarippayattu										-- Advertisement --										If you visit Kerala	 you shouldn’t a performance of the spectacular martial art of Kalarippayattu. Keralaites take pride in this traditional sport and claim that it is the first martial art. It requires a specially crafted sword and shield. The practice includes strikes	 kicks	 grappling	 weaponry	 and healing methods. It takes years to master and is stunning to watch. Being featured in conventional movies like Asoka (2001)	 The Myth (2005)	 The Last Legion (2007)	 Commando (2013)	 and Baaghi (2016)	 martial art has gained some worldwide popularity.Yubee Lakpee										Yubee in Manipuri means coconut	 and lakpee means snatching. It is a popular outdoor sport in Manipur. Yubee Lakpee is very similar to rugby and a coconut is used like a ball. It has its origins in mythology. It is said that it was played on the grounds of the Bijoy Govinda Temple on the pichakaree day by persons acting as gods and demons. The game was celebrated annually on this day	 re-enacting the scene from Hindu mythology involving snatching a pot of amrit. In present-day Manipur	 it is played by men only.							Dhopkhel										Dhopkhel is a seasonal game	 played during the Assam’s Spring Festival	 known as Rangoli Bihu. It is the most popular amongst the unusual sports in India. The game was once played to amuse Ahom royalty. It is played between two eleven-member teams on a 125 m ? 80 m field. “Dhop” is the ball that is thrown at each other by the teams and if it does not fall on the opponent’s court	 it is to be thrown again. The dhop has to be caught by the opposing team	 and if they fail	 the other team takes the throw.					Asol Aap and Asol-Tale Aap										Two of the major native games of the Andaman & Nicobar Islands are Asol Aap and Asol-Tale Aap. Both involve racing canoes. In Asol Aap	 the canoe race takes place in the ocean waters whereas in the case of Asol-Tale Aap they are raced on sand. At Car Nicobar	 the Asol Aap race is organised by the Nicobar Athletic Association. The number of participants is generally 40 to 90	 depending on the size of the canoe. The race is about 5 to 6 km long. In Asol-Tale Aap	 the participants have to drag the canoe in the sand with their legs and arms. Whoever completes the distance the fastest	 wins.					Kambala Buffalo Race										Source Flickr										One of the most popular	 but also least known unusual sports of India has to be the Kambala Buffalo race. The lush greenery of the paddy fields and their slush and mud serves as the backdrop for this unusual sports in India.									Over a five-month period from November to March	 around 45 buffalo races are held in the villages along Karnataka’s coastline with farmers racing a pair of their fastest buffaloes.									A rural sporting event that generates a lot of enthusiasm led by cheering crowds	 Kambala was originally conceived as a symbolic thanksgiving to the Almighty for keeping the buffaloes protected against diseases.									Elephant polo										(Source – Mha Ro Rajasthan)										All of us have seen the sport of Polo played via using horses	 but have seen Elephant Polo?									Of course	 this form of sport does seem to be endless	 given the massive size of the animals used	 the amount of time it takes the player to maneuver them around to hit the ball.							As far as the rules of the game are concerned each player is given three chances to hit the ball without hooking the sticks. No more than two elephants of a team can be present in any one half of the playfield. Elephants cannot lie down before reaching their goals. They are also not allowed to use their trunks to pick up balls.										Historians believe this unusual sports in India originated during the 1900’s. The sport is equally popular among the ladies. They are allowed to use both hands to hold the polo stick while men playing the game must use just one.										[For more latest updates and stories on Indian sports (and athletes)	 subscribe to the KreedOn network today-									KreedOn: The Voice of #Indiansport]										-- Advertisement --										Follow us on: Instagram	 Facebook	 YouTube	 WhatsApp and be part of KreedOn’s community							For more sports knowledge and latest stories on Indian sports and athletes										Subscribe Now Receive exciting Indian sports stories on your WhatsApp now.										Email Address *										Name *										Share										adwaita										Bibliophile. Audiophile. Goonerette.										Previous article										Tejaswin Shankar: Raising the Bar										Next article										Nicknames of Indian Cricket Team Players										RELATED ARTICLES										KreedOn Candids										Nungshithol dreams of meeting her idol Maruyama once										KreedOn Candids										Arjuna Awardee Sushila Devi has a passion for social service										Cricket Predictions										IND vs SL Dream11 Prediction | India vs Sri Lanka 1st ODI Tips by experts – Today’s Match Prediction | Squads	 where to watch	...								Athletes										Suryakumar Yadav Diet & Workout Plan | Know how this star Indian batsman stays fit										Sports 2.0										Top 10 Field Hockey Sticks In 2022 – 23 | Choose The Best Hockey Sticks & Kick Start Your Hockey Journey Today										News										Proud Moment! India Clinched Bronze on Debut in Women’s International Tent Pegging Championship										LEAVE A REPLY										Comment:										Name:*										Email:*										Website:										Save my name	 email	 and website in this browser for the next time I comment.								-- Advertisement --										